Langdon facilities

- Langdon Elementary School is a local neighborhood school with an SY21-22 enrollment of 348
- The facilities were modernized in 2014-17, though this was completed as a "90% modernization" in August 2016.
- Since then, the school has been plagued by a number of issues

How does the connection 

In response to my recent request: #2023-FOIA-07047

I received the following document:

DCAM-20-NC-RFP-0007-1D Task Order 1 Ludlow Taylor.pdf
Contract Number DCAM-17-NC-RFP-0007-1D
Task Order Agreement No. 1

This document contains the following attachments, in turn included only through Sharepoint links which either require privileged access or are no longer available. I am requesting these documents, as referenced below:

Attachment A1
SCOPE OF WORK AND SPECIFICATIONS
Click on the link below to view the attachment
https://dcgovict-my.sharepoint.com/:b:/g/personal/vernona_scott_dc_gov/EQfSn7zFhSFMqzaATZ37CEUBcpLuzuMDQ_pw9eOC-DzZww?e=HO5AAe

Attachment A2 PROJECT DRAWINGS
PART 1
Click on the link below to view the attachment
https://dcgovict-my.sharepoint.com/:b:/g/personal/vernona_scott_dc_gov/ESEaJbPwTWJJgtGnSH9VZBwBGrFSGofL-ufVh_KOl6b_cg?e=YPpUfn

Attachment A2 PROJECT DRAWINGS
PART 2
Click on the link below to view the attachment
https://dcgovict-my.sharepoint.com/:b:/g/personal/vernona_scott_dc_gov/ETWZ6ew8_thAgbS9ZAKQr8QByLGuPmgWS9Zq62i7RxdOgA?e=UzRN1h

DCPS should schedule Langdon Elementary School for modernization starting in FY29 and schedule it to use the John Burroughs Field modular complex.

At PACE rank 30, Langdon ES is likely to be schedule in FY30 or FY31. FY29 is attainable and should be pushed for.

In the PACE Supplemental Report from June 2023, there were five schools scheduled for FY28 (lowest PACE rank 27) and none for FY29 and beyond (see page 10: https://lims.dccouncil.gov/downloads/LIMS/53392/Introduction/RC25-0065-Introduction.pdf?Id=164952). If the five lowest-ranked schools were assigned FY29, Langdon ES would indeed be scheduled for FY29.

Scheduling for FY29 would put construction in SY29-30 and SY30-31, which would be in serial with Burroughs and Bunker Hill, which are already scheduled to use the new modular complex on the Burroughs field. This complex will be .5 miles from Langdon ES, even closer than it is to Bunker Hill ES. Langdon ES's prospects would not otherwise be any better than Burroughs and Bunker Hill, which were to be sent to Meyer ES in Columbia Heights and Emery ES in southern Eckington respectively.

The estimated approximately $20M investment in the Burroughs modular complex was fought for by a coalition of Ward 5 schools, and it should as such be used by Ward 5 schools. As DCPS will be very, very unlikely to decommission this investment after only four years and two schools, scheduling Langdon ES and affirmatively slating it to use the school will ensure this Ward 5 investment is used by Ward 5 communities. I fear scheduling other schools for FY29 ahead of Langdon will mean schools from other Wards being bussed in to use it.

Lastly, it's important for this earliest possible scheduling to occur because the Langdon ES facility needs it. The Phase 1 modernization completed in 2016 was insufficient to address some systemic issues with the school's HVAC, among other issues outlined in the attached ANC 5C resolution. New learners from among the families bussed to DC and sheltered around New York Ave and Bladensburg have further stressed facility capacity.

I am attaching an ANC 5C resolution, passed in October, that outlines this issue in detail. I'm also attaching the DCPS response, which failed to even superficially grasp the ask regarding FY29 scheduling, instead only repeating the fact that Langdon ES has a PACE rank of 30 (a fact firmly detailed with background in the Resolution text).

I hope we can pressure DCPS to simply make this relatively minor and straightforward acknowledgement in the next PACE supplemental release.

One other housekeeping note in the same realm is that Langley ES should be slated to use Emery ES, now that Bunker Hill will be at the Burroughs modular complex. The Langley ES community joined in the modular complex fight in part for this reason, so I'm hoping they don't neglect to make that official.

Thanks!



DDOT should prioritize upgrading the 18th St NE bicycle/mobility lanes.

The 18th St NE bike lanes are obsolete, and also missing after repaving in some spots the MoveDC plan considers existing. As we build east-west routes from the MBT (like Taylor! Soon!) and much new infrastructure to the south (West Virginia Ave which is complete, Mt Olivet and 17th which are imminent, Bladensburg which will be done approximately in FY28, and the NYA trail... someday), it's important that we upgrade this important north-south route to modern standards.

It's also a vital necessity for providing traffic calming along this 42' wide roadway. Communities along 18th St are desperate for the traffic calming that this reduction in driver crosswidth would provide.

I have written much more about this here: https://anc5c07.com/issues/18thst-bikelanes/

This was also endorsed in the ANC 5C Resolution on Comprehensive Public Safety, which among other things, calls on DDOT to:

- prioritize improved physical protection and consistency for the 18th St NE bicycle/mobility lanes to buffer pedestrians, offer an alternative and unobstructed facility for users of assistive devices such as wheelchairs, and constrain available crosswidth to drivers to encourage slower and more attentive driving
- follow through with ongoing projects to create network connections from 18th St NE on both the north and south ends of this vital north-south corridor not otherwise mentioned in this resolution, including the Mount Olivet multimodal improvement project, the Arboretum Bridge and Trail and Maryland Avenue Connector projects, the Michigan Avenue Trail project, the Taylor St corridor Protected Bike Lane project, and due consideration for a road diet in the $1M-dedicated South Dakota Ave tactical safety project

Thanks!